This empty shell
should mean nothing to you.
Your Sifu did a poor job
of teaching you how to let go, I see.
Stop toying with my brother!
What she said!
[Lo] Please... make a demand of me again.
When you have lived as long as I,
you realize those pleasures
you once pursued...
were just stupid, guttering candles
you kept lit against the wind of death.
What you thought was pleasure,
in hindsight,
was mere solace against
the knowledge that you are fleeting.
After a few hundred years,
you see how repetitive it all is.
How dull.
You learn there is only one pleasure.
Testing living things.
Pushing them to the limit
of their fear and pain
to see how they react.
There is an endless variety
to these responses.
And variety, as they say,
is the spice of life, no?
Stop hurting my sister, you shit!
[Jesus grunts]
[Lo] Isabela, I promised you
I would tell you who your Sifu was,
so I shall,
as it will amuse me to see your face
as you learn the truth.
From the little I know of El Balde,
he wasted the orphans he made
even more foolishly than
the power he stumbled upon.
Orphans, you see, make wonderful soldiers.
[grunting]
[gasps]
[Lo] Lost, alone,
angry.
Orphans are dull weapons,
begging to be sharpened.
Chiu quickly sloughed off his shame.
[shatters]
But his rage I had him hone
to a fine, razor's edge.
Then, when it was sharp enough,
I used it to cut away
the rest of his emotions
until rage was all that was left.
Rage was alone, then,
easy to corner and dispatch.
Left emotionless, he was free.
He became my best assassin.
Perhaps that is why I told him things
he should not have known.
And, like so many piles
of conscious dust before him...
his hubris got the better of him.
Chiu, the moral paragon,
tried to take my immortality for himself.
He almost succeeded.
But he failed.
Now he is dead, just as you will be.
He's telling the truth.
But there is a hole in his story.
If Chiu wanted immortality for himself,
why didn't he eat the peach?
[thunder rumbling]
Enough talk.
Return to dust.
[projector humming]
Find Brister, immediately.
What a goddamn waste of money
you turned out to be, El Balde.
I have...
severe news.
El Balde... está muerto.
So, I suppose that means...
I'm the new jefe.
[grunts]
[indistinct whispering]
Please, little brother.
I'm 80% sure it will work.
Eighty-five percent.
I need to uh... to go pee, but...
but I'm scared to go alone.
Ayayay. What are you, eh,
some kind of pussy?
Yes.
[sighs] Ay, OK, fine.
[gasps]
[grunting]
[grunts]
[groans]
Hm. That was impressive.
[screams]
[grunts]
[Isabela grunts]
[screams]
[groans]
[grunts]
[Isabela sighs]
[sighs]
[grunts]
Now we can finally talk.
No, no, no. No more.
You can piss yourself for all I care.
Actually, I was wondering
if I could see your gun.
[laughs]
I'm serious!
It's just, you see, my father,
before what happened to him...
[sobbing] ...he used to promise me
he would teach me to shoot.
Every day he would promise.
And-And every day would go by
and he would be too busy.
The morning he was...
was taken from us,
he promised again and... and now--
Hey, hey. Cut the racket, eh?
Ah, for Christ's sake.
OK, OK, fine, fine.
Here. Happy?
Ay. It's not loaded, you idiot.
Too bad your father
never taught you nothing, eh,
because you just signed
your death warrant.
[gasps]
You learn a lot of things growing up poor.
How to flatter an idiot
to get what you want.
How to use a gun.
How to pick a pocket.
[Larry] Bunch of superstitious heathens.
[wind whistling]
You animal.
You killed them all.
[Lo] You are no stranger
to killing, yourself.
If in killing I relinquished my humanity,
then surely both of us are beasts.
At any rate, they are all alive.
Shut up!
[cries out]
[groaning]
Your friends will live
because I knew you wanted it so.
Why do you care what I want?
Because I would like you to come with me.
I see such power in you.
I want to turn you into my weapon.
You must be insane to think
I would be your weapon after all of this!
Am I?
I think I have something very attractive
to offer you in return.
Men like you always think
they can buy anyone with money,
with power.
But you're wrong, Lo.
I am not offering you power.
I am asking for your power,
and in return, I am offering you peace.
What?
El Balde killed your parents,
stole your voice.
The gift he gave you was his rage.
The curse he left you was he never
taught you how to move beyond it,
beyond every emotion,
to the place where you are free.
Look at you.
You hold onto your desire for revenge
like a drowning man.
Tell me, you have had a taste of revenge.
Has it brought you peace?
[gasps]
Of course not.
Child, I am not here
to offer you a dream of peace.
I have use of your skill for violence.
So, I offer you real peace in exchange.
A way to sever yourself
from the emotions that burn you like fire.
To cut at the strands
that tether you to them
until they float away
and you are truly free.
Free to be the weapon
you were meant to be.
I am not a weapon.
I...
I just want to go home.
You are still an infant.
This school was not your home.
It was your crib.
Of course Chiu never brought you peace.
Of course your rage boiled
in your stomach all your youth,
as he yammered on about water
and gentleness.
He was wrong.
The proof is all around you.
He is dead.
His school is ashes.
You tried to find peace Chiu's way,
you tried it your way,
and it brought you here, kneeling,
beaten, miserable in the dark.
Are you not tired?
Do you not yearn for peace?
Do we have a deal?
[Silencio] Never.
[yelling continues]
[coughing]
Do we have a deal?
[helicopter rotor whirring]
[Larry] Wake up, asshole!
Larry?
Oh, shit.
I died and went to hell.
[grunts]
How much blood you got to lose
before you drop that smart-mouth crap?
All of it.
[scoffs] Well, I hope you enjoyed
your little vacation south of the border,
because, guess what?
You are under arrest.
What? "Monsters, magic,
magic Chink mob bosses, witches, the..."
Jesus.
We're gonna need
a new classification for all this shit.
Top-Top Secret? Ultra-Top Secret?
Fucking X-File?
Lo took Silencio.
Where is...
[coughs]
...Brister?
We don't know.
He wasn't here.
Maybe Lo took him, too?
Sifu's death really was trivial
to El Balde.
An accident.
It meant nothing.
It meant a lot... to us.
Yes.
I suppose it did.
You really think Lo was telling the truth?
Chiu used to be a crazy-ass murderer?
I don't know.
But I mean to find out,
on the way to getting our brother back.
What? How?
Chiu's tattoo was on the helicopter
that took Silencio away.
If we follow it, it might lead us to him.
You mean, we go to China?
Before you go, I need a favor.
It's San Simon.
El Balde's men took over the town.
Who knows
what they're subjecting our people to?
[engine stops]
Brigida!
Where are El Balde's men?
We tricked them. We took their guns.
We pointed their guns at them,
and then the cowards ran that way!
[laughs]
Wow! That is amazing!
And where are your parents?
I...
They...
[children cheering]
[Isabela] It's Domingo.
So many faces.
[Brigida sniffs]
It's everyone who has died,
so we'll remember.
All I wanted was for something to happen
in this sleepy little town.
I prayed for it every night.
If I only had known Santa Nucifera was
the one who was hearing my prayers.
[Isabela] He looks like Silencio.
[sobs]
We have to get to China.
We have to help him.
How?
You got a plane?
You got money for a ticket?
We don't have a peso to our name, Isabela.
[Brigida] But we do.
Father Serrano was
a really well-organized guy.
Here.
Is this enough?
Brigida, we can't just take your money.
You're not. I'm buying something from you.
What?
Garcia, as our Chief of Police.
We're just kids.
We need her.
Will you stay?
Will you help us
make San Simon good again?
Of course, mija.
[Isabela] We will find Silencio.
No matter what.
I promise.
[Jesus] I hope he's OK...
wherever he is.
[gasps]
[panting]
[wheezing]
[Lo] It is clear to me this El Balde
stumbled blindly onto our power...
a power he badly misunderstood.
His mother understood a bit more.
But they are dead,
so we are again alone with our knowledge.
Though it gives me pause to know
there might be other cracks in the world
through which there is access
to the mystery.
It is good you are awake, my child.
We have much to discuss.
[sound warps]
[projector buzzing]